More companies are trying to
bring self driving cars to the
masses than ever before. Yet a
truly autonomous vehicle still
doesn't exist and it's not clear
if or when our driverless future
will arrive. Proponents like
Elon Musk have touted an
aggressive timeline but missed
their goals, and others in the
industry have also missed
projections. Well, our goal is
to deploy these vehicles in 2019
so you'll have the option to not
drive. It's not happening in
2020, it's happening today. We
wanted to check in. Where
exactly are we with self driving
cars
and wind? Can we expect them to
be part of our daily lives?
The current state of driverless
cars is very interesting because
we've passed what people refer
to as peak hype and we've
entered what's called the
through of disillusionment,
which is even people within the
industry are saying, Gee, it
turns out this is a lot harder
than we thought. We're
definitely not anywhere near as
far along as a lot of people
thought we would be three years
ago, but I think over the last
18 to 24
months there's been, you know, a
real injection of reality. There
was a sense maybe a year or two
ago that ohh, our algorithms are
so good, we're ready to launch,
we're gonna launch drivers
guides and any minute and then
obviously there's been this
setbacks of people getting
killed or accidents happening
and now we're a lot more
cautious. Several big players
have begun to walk back their
predictions on how soon we could
see this technology. Even
Waymo's chief external officer
admitted that the hype around
its self driving cars has become
unmanageable.
The technology has come a long
way, but there's still a lot of
work to be done. There's the
perception, which is, you know,
using the sensors to figure out
what's around the vehicle and
the environment around the
vehicle prediction, figuring out
what those, what those road
users are going to be doing next
in the next few seconds. Turns
out that the perception and and
especially prediction are
really, really hard problems to
solve.
Companies tackling self driving
today are taking two general
approaches. Some are building a
self driving car from the ground
up. Others are developing the
brains that drive the car in.
Early leader was Google, who
started its self-driving car
project in 2009 known as Waymo.
Today, the company is developing
hardware and software that can
function as the brains in a self
driving car. Aurora is taking a
similar approach. Founded in
2017 by early players from Uber,
Tesla and Google's self driving
initiatives, it's already raised
620 million in funding from
Amazon and other big
from investors. Rory is testing
vehicles on the road in
Pittsburgh, PA and out here in
the Bay Area. We don't yet let
the public in our cars. Our cars
are on the road. We have two of
our test operators in there. The
technology we're building can
operate from a compact electric
car to a minivan to even a big
long haul truck. Argo, AI and
Aptiv are examples of other
companies taking a similar
approach. Lyft is developing its
own self driving systems now too
and offering self-driving rides
on its app through partnerships
and select areas.
After having this is too big for
just one company and one effort.
And if you look at our strategy,
that is why we're working with
partners on the open platform,
active and Waymo and why we're
building the tech here.
Companies like Tesla, Zooks and
GM with its Cruise division are
making their own vehicles aiming
for self driving cars that can
operate in all environments.
This is the engineering
challenge of our generation.
We've raised 7 and a quarter
billion dollars of capital. We
have deep integration with both
General Motors and Honda, which
we think is essential to when
you're building mission critical
safety systems and building
those in a way that you can
deploy them at very large scale.
Crews, which was acquired by
General Motors in 2016, has been
testing its fleet of vehicles in
San Francisco with safety
drivers on board. To give you a
sense for the magnitude of the
difference between suburban
driving and what we're doing
every day on the streets of San
Francisco, our cars on average
see more activity in one minute
of San Francisco driving than
they see in one hour of driving
in Arizona. Zooks, led by the
former Chief Strategy Officer at
Intel, is working on
creating an all-in-one
self-driving taxi system with
plans to launch in 2020. Instead
of retrofitting cars with
sensors and computers and
saying, hey, here's a self
driving car, we think there's an
opportunity to create a new type
of vehicle that from the very
beginning was designed to move
people around autonomously.
Nissan and Tesla both have semi
autonomous systems on the roads
today. Tesla has been available
in beta on its vehicles since
2015 and drivers have been known
to use the current system hands
free. Tesla is promising full
self driving software is just
around the corner
to be tight, but it still does
appear that will be at least in
limited in in early access
release of a feature complete
full self-driving feature this
year. I think Tesla is actually
a lot further back than they
would like the world to to
believe they are because they
they are in fact so much more
limited in terms of their
hardware. Others are making
self-driving shuttles that
operate along designated routes
only or focusing on trucks with
long haul highway routes. And
then there are companies like
Ghost,
then, I working on aftermarket
kits, essentially hardware that
could be installed in older cars
to bring them new self-driving
capabilities one day. For all
players in this space, the path
ahead is filled with challenges,
chief among them proving the
technology is safe. Driverless
systems have to meet a very high
safety bar that has to be better
than a human before they're
deployed at scale. There are no
federally established standards
or testing protocols for
automated driving systems in the
US today, but there have been
fatal crashes.
Woman named Elaine Hertzberg was
killed by an autonomous Uber
with a safety driver who was
paying no attention. This woman
was crossing the street walking
her bicycle. Should easily have
been seen by the autonomous
vehicle was not was run over.
Nobody stepped on the brakes. In
2016, a Tesla fan named Joshua
Brown died in a crash while
using Autopilot hands free in
Florida. Other Autopilot
involved accidents are now under
investigation. Still, the
industry is hopeful that
autonomous vehicles will make
the roads
far safer than they are today.
Really, the kind of 0 to one
moment for the industry will be
when we can remove those safety
drivers safely and the vehicle
can operate without the presence
of any human. Others like Elon
Musk have said, you know, it's
almost irresponsible not to have
these vehicles out there because
they are safer and will be safer
than human drivers. Even if we
could say that an autonomous
vehicle was better than a human
driver, it doesn't mean that an
autonomous vehicle is better
than a human
driver. Plus all of the advanced
driver assist systems we have
when looking at when the tech
could actually be ready. One of
the principal metrics touted by
companies is the number of miles
driven. But not all miles are
created equal when testing
automated systems. You could
take an autonomous vehicle and
go, you know, put it on an Oval
track, you know, or just a
straight road, and you could
drive 100 million miles. But
that's not really going to tell
you much about how well the
system actually functions
because it's not encountering
the kinds of things that are
actually challenging in a
driving environment. Testing
self driving vehicles out on
public roads isn't enough. They
need to be exposed to every
imaginable scenario. So
companies rely on simulation. We
can create situations that we're
basically never going to see are
very rarely see. So for example,
we might want to simulate what
happens as a bicycle comes
through an intersection, runs a
red light and crashes into the
side of our car. Turns out that
doesn't happen very often in the
real world. But we want to know
that if that happens, our
vehicles are going to do
something safe. Basically, allow
the car to practise up in the
cloud instead of on the road.
When you're testing autonomous
vehicles out on public roads,
not only are the people riding
in that car part of the
experiment, but so is everybody
else around you, and they didn't
consent to being part of an
experiment.
I remain concerned that humans
will be used as test dummies.
Instead of self certification
and deregulation, I want to see
strong independent safety
regulations from the agencies in
front of us today. The self
certification approach did not
work out well for the Boeing 737
Max 8, and now Boeing is paying
the price. We should heed that
lesson when it comes to finding
out the best way to deploy
autonomous vehicles.
Lawmakers held hearings this
month to figure out how to keep
the public safe without holding
back. Self Driving innovation In
September, the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration
released new federal guidelines
for automated driving systems,
but their only voluntary
suggestions at this point. State
legislation is farther along. As
of October 41 states have either
enacted laws or signed executive
orders regulating autonomous
vehicles. With regulatory
questions looming, it's no
surprise that self driving
companies are proceeding
cautiously at first. What we're
going to be seeing in the next
several years
is more limited deployments in
very specific areas where
there's confidence that the
technology can work. I think
we'll see limited deployments of
self driving vehicles in the
next five years or so. You'll
see these moving goods and
you'll see them moving people,
but you'll see them specifically
in fleet applications. Aurora
says its systems could be
integrated into any vehicle from
fleets of taxis to long haul
trucks. The cost of self driving
technology is another deciding
factor for how it'll be
deployed. Most consumers
are never going to own a vehicle
that's really autonomous because
the technology is expensive and
there's there's a whole raft of
issues around product liability
and you know, making sure that
it's properly maintained and
sensors are calibrated. That's
one reason ride hailing
companies Lyft and Uber are
getting in the game. We have two
autonomous initiatives. One is
the open platform where we're
connecting lift passengers with
our partner self driving
vehicles. And so this is active
in Las Vegas and Waymo in
Chandler, AZ. And then also kind
of the product
experience for the tech that you
see here, which is Level 5. As
AV companies inched toward the
mainstream public perception,
simple understanding of the tech
has become another issue that
could impact progress. Some in
particular in the industry have
have done a disservice to the
public in overhyping the
technology before it's really
ready. It's still not very clear
to most people what we mean when
we say driverless cars. Waymo
and General Motors Cruise
Automation are very close to
having what they referred to as
level
five cars most of the time. In
other words, again they can in
theory function all by
themselves,
but so far it seems that they
function like a, you know, a 15
year old driver hoping to get a
driver's licence. There's a lot
of people who think that you can
buy autonomous vehicles today.
You know, especially when you
can go out and buy a car and buy
an option that's that's called
full self-driving and pay for
that. You expect that it
actually exists and the the fact
is it does not exist today. With
an uncertain timeline and a
history of missed targets,
public confusion is no surprise.
Despite big developments, most
companies have recognised we are
still years away from having
truly self driving cars
as part of our daily lives. One
big question is one is the car
ready? You have to have a good
sense of all of the scenarios
and all of the situations that
the vehicle will need to
encounter and that just takes
time. We expect level 4 vehicles
to be feasible in small
quantities within the next five
years and what that means is
you'll probably see hundreds or
maybe thousands of vehicles out
either delivering packages or
moving people's through
neighbourhood or or maybe
hauling
goods on our freeways. And now
even the experts hesitate to
make promises on when true self
driving will get here. You
always have to assume that the
user is going to find a way to
misuse the technology, assume
the worst and then design for
that. I think it's a mistake to
be over promoting the technology
and overhyping it when it's
still a very much a work in
progress. This is something we
need to do with society, with
the community and not our
society and we take that very
seriously. We're building
mission critical
50 systems that are going to
have a huge positive impact on
people's lives, and the tech
adage of move fast and break
things most assuredly does not
apply to what we're doing here.